Raygun4WP
==========

**[Raygun](http://raygun.com) for WordPress**

The WordPress plugin providing an easy integration of Raygun into WordPress websites. [Crash Reporting](https://raygun.com/platform/crash-reporting) allows developers to easily track errors, exceptions and crashes automatically, while [Real User Monitoring](https://raygun.com/platform/real-user-monitoring) allows developers to identify issues, measure trends in application performance, and improve customer experiences.

This provider uses the lower-level [Raygun4PHP](https://github.com/MindscapeHQ/raygun4php) provider for server-side crash reporting and [Raygun4JS](https://github.com/MindscapeHQ/raygun4js) for both client-side crash reporting and real user monitoring.

**Multisite support**: *This plugin is not guaranteed to work on multisite installations with certain environments.* A specific installation procedure should be followed. More information can be found [here](https://wordpress.org/plugins/raygun4wp/#multisite%20support).

## Installation

Ensure that your server is running at least WordPress 5.3 and PHP 7.4.

*Raygun4WP version 1.9.3 is recommended for use with older PHP versions >= 5.3.3.*

### From Wordpress Plugin Directory

Add it from the official *wordpress.org* repository using your admin panel - the plugin is available from [wordpress.org/plugins/raygun4wp](http://wordpress.org/plugins/raygun4wp).

### Manually with Git

Clone this repository into your WordPress installation's `/plugins` folder - e.g. `/wordpress/wp-content/plugins`.

```
git clone https://github.com/MindscapeHQ/raygun4wordpress.git
```

## Usage

1. Navigate to your WordPress admin panel, click on Plugins, and then **Activate Raygun**.
2. Visit the Raygun plugin **About** page.
3. Follow the steps under *Get Started Today*.

## Crash Reporting

[Raygun Crash Reporting](https://raygun.com/platform/crash-reporting) silently monitors your software and notifies you when users encounter errors. Crash Reporting also provides deep diagnostic information about the root cause of the error or crash, meaning your team won't be losing valuable time digging through log files.

Using this plugin, you can enable crash reporting to track errors and exceptions generated by your WordPress site.

## Real User Monitoring

Ensure your website delivers a flawless user experience using [Raygun Real User Monitoring](https://raygun.com/platform/real-user-monitoring). Monitor the performance of every user session so you can make improvements. Measure how geographic location affects your user experience by viewing detailed breakdowns. Increase user retention by discovering the problematic pages your users get stuck on.

Using this plugin, you can enable real user monitoring to track individual user sessions, asset load times and more about your WordPress site.

## Customers

Customers are why we create software. See them all, what they do, and how they're impacted by errors, crashes, and performance issues when using your software applications. Raygun Customers gives you complete clarity on who is using your application, alongside any problems they encountered that negatively impacted their end-user experience. Understand what actions led to an issue occurring and whether the overall experience was good or bad for individual users. Customers is included in all Raygun plans and can be set up quickly by enabling it in your plugin settings.

When enabled, the currently logged in user's email address, first name and last name will be transmitted with each error or session. This will be visible in the Raygun dashboard. If this feature is not enabled, a random ID will be assigned to each user.

## Tagging Errors

As of 1.8.0, both client-side and server-side errors can be tagged. Tags are custom text transmitted with errors that allow for easy identification. For example, a developer might want to tag JavaScript errors with *client-side* and PHP errors with *server-side*.

## Asynchronous Sending

As of 2.0.0, asynchronous sending is avaliable on both Unix and Windows based systems. **Enabling async sending should yeild a significant performance increase.**

## Logging Unsent Errors

As of 2.0.0, errors that fail to send to Raygun will be logged to the standard WordPress log file (`WP_CONTENT_DIR`**/debug.log**).

---------

Changelog
---------
- 2.0.0: Switch to Composer for dependency management; Bump Raygun4PHP dependency to v2.3.0; Use new async sending guzzle (adds support for async on Windows); Switch Raygun4JS dependency to grab latest CDN distribution; Add error type tagging; Log errors that fail to send to Raygun; Add setting to disable tracking on admin pages; Rename Mindscape namespace to Raygun (src); Improve RaygunClientManager such that setting changes take effect immediately; Correct relationship between error handler and shutdown handler; Miscellaneous bug fixes, code improvements, UI and documentation updates
- 1.9.3: Updated User Tracking to Customers.
- 1.9.2: Update Pulse to Real User Monitoring (RUM)
- 1.9.1: Don't set user cookie when user tracking is disabled.
- 1.9.0: Add async sending option to dashboard; Bump Raygun4JS dependency to v2.8.5; Bump Raygun4PHP dependency to v1.8.2
- 1.8.3: Fix XSS vulnerability in settings; Replace the iframe with a link to the Raygun dashboard
- 1.8.2: Bump Raygun4JS version to v2.6.2
- 1.8.1: XSS bug fix
- 1.8.0: Bump Raygun4JS dependency to v2.4.0; Bump Raygun4PHP dependency to v1.7.0; Pulse support added; Raygun4JS also includes the unique user tracking feature; Restructured the settings screen; JavaScript error tagging option added; Fixed an issue where the Send Test Error page wouldn't display results; Various content and style updates; Updated notifications; Raygun4JS tracks the version Wordpress being used; Unique user tracking also tracks the users first & last names
- 1.7.3: Fixed issue with WP 4.5.2 plugin api
- 1.7.2: Fixed redundant cURL check when running in socket mode
- 1.7.1: Fix issue with tags not being provided for caught exceptions
- 1.7.0: Bump Raygun4JS dependency to v1.18.4
- 1.6.0: Bump Raygun4php dependency to v1.6.1
- 1.5.2: Ignored domains are now obeyed for JS errors; fix admin menu appearing for users without that role
- 1.5.1: Fix settings change errors
- 1.5.0: Added flag to enable multisite support; bump RG4PHP and RG4JS dependencies
- 1.4.1: Admin warning notice fix
- 1.4.0: Added auto client-side JavaScript error tracking
- 1.3.0: Ignored Domains setting added; bump RG4PHP to v1.3.5
- 1.2.1: Updated admin message
- 1.2: Now requires PHP 5.3.3 or newer; default to using socket sending method; bump Raygun4PHP to 1.3.3
- 1.1.4: Bump Raygun4PHP to latest version 1.2.4
- 1.1.3: Bump Raygun4PHP to async version
- 1.1.1: WordPress version tracking enabled; updated Raygun4PHP. There were two bugs in 1.1 with nested request data and user tracking, updating is recommended.
- 1.1: Added Unique User tracking support; updated repo to use latest Raygun4PHP v1.1
- 1.0.3: Added button to test setup on config page; added status indicator, improved handling when API key missing or invalid; fixed a major bug where the provider would attempt to send errors, even if the status was 'disabled', cURL was missing, or an invalid API key was provided
- 1.0.1: Added 404 error handling; enabled tag support; misc UX improvements
